# CS161: Computer Security
[CS161](https://fa22.cs161.org/proj2/) 2022 fall, project2, 实现一个多用户文件分享系统。
以下是我的设计文档。

## Threat Model
Assume that all adversaries know my source code.

### Datastore Adversary
Datastore is untrusted. The adversary can view the content of all requests to the Datastore API.
And the datastore can be modified by the adversary.

So everything stored in Datastore should be encrypted or hashed.

### Revoked User Adversary
User will record all of the requests that their client makes to **Datastore** and the corresponding responses.

When a user has their access to a shared file revoked, that user may be malicious and use the Datastore API directly.


## Data structure
User related structures: *UserInfo*, *UserMeta*. *UserInfo* has the pointer to the *UserMeta* block stored in the Datastore, which let the different login user endpoint access the latest metadata of the user (file ownership, sharing, asymmetric keys).

File structure (*FileHeader*).
The Owner of the file has the address to the *FileHeader* which contains the file related information (filename, content links). I user an array of UUIDs to record the content blocks, which improve the append operation efficiency.

Invitation structure (*InvitationBlock*). These block is used to communicate between the acceptor and the provider using asymmetric encryption. The *InvitationBlock* contains encrypted Address of FileHeader using the Public Key of the acceptor. And the *InvitationBlock* contains the provider's signature for integrity.

General structure.
- *Address*. Contain two symmetric keys (EncKey, MacKey) and a UUID. With this structure, one can access the block in Datastore securely.
- *DatastoreValue*. Contain two member for storing encrypted data and its MAC. If I want to store a plaintext to Datastore, I serialize it, encrypt it and mac it to build a *DatastoreValue*structure. Then I can save this structure to Datastore related to an *Address*.

## User Authentication
When user login, we deterministically find the User structure and check whether the password match the password hash. Then use the password (good source of entropy) to derived MAC key to check the User structure is untampper. The User struct save the login user's password for future keys' derivation (encryption key, mac key).

## File Storage and Retrieval
When user save a new file, user create new *FileHeader* and file related keys (symmetric). User save the mapping of the filename to *Address* of *FileHeader* in the table of users's metadata block. 

The file owner retrieve the file content by directly access the *FileHeader*. The acceptor should first access the *InvitationBlock* to acquire the latest address of the *FileHeader*.

When appending, accessible user create new content block and add it's UUID to the *FileHeader*.

Both owners and acceptors use the same keys related to the File.

## File Sharing and Revocation
When user (owner or acceptor) want to share the file to another user, the user create a new *InvitationBlock* which contains the Address of the *FileHeader*. The provider give the UUID of the *InvitationBlock* to the acceptor.

When the owner wants to revoke from the acceptor, the owner delete the *InvitationBlock* and move the *FileHeader* to a new place (content blocks are also moved). Then the owner updates others *InvitationBlock* with new *FileHeader* address.
